The location of the prospect at the edge of a mid - Proterozoic sedimentary basin abutting a basement high , and the presence of metalliferous rocks in hydrocarbons , suggest potential for sediment hosted base metals mineralisation .
Exploration showed that the carbonate sequence at Corktree is over 300 metres thick .
Correlations have been drawn from Sweetwaters Well member of the Yelma Formation , which hosts primary MVT style Pb - Zn mineralisation in the main Earaheedy Basin to the east .
During 2010 reconnaissance mapping and sampling by PacMag was undertaken to assess the potential for Lead deposits and Zinc deposits .
The area is of interest as it is mapped as outcropping Yelma Formation , one of the basal groups of the Yerrida Basin .
Mildly anomalous Lead and Zinc were intersected .
The area has several hills typical of the Magellan region .
The substantial exploration drilling was carried out within the Magellan tenements in 2006 .
The mineralisation is hosted by quartz breccia and weathered siltstones and sandstones of the Yelma Formation .
Previous work by CRA exploring for sediment hosted copper deposits defined an anomalous geochemical signature and a number of RAB holes were completed at the Terra Rosa and Elmo prospects .
The copper mineralisation discovered by pervious explorers appears to be in a similar host rock and stratigraphy as the Enigma mineralization , which significantly enhances the prospectivity of the Corktree project .
In addition , previous soil sampling over the southern area gave a poor gold response over the majority of the stripped domain .
There are still soil - covered areas within the southern area that warrant further work including a gold anomalous interpreted north - south structure and areas adjacent to the western boundaries that are poorly exposed and may fall within the radius of the Higginsville gold mineralising event .
The report area has been intruded by the regional - scale Binneringie Dyke .
This is a thick , complex differentiated mafic intrusion with multiple components considered to be possibly mid Proterozoic in age .
The regional sequence is in a rift - phase portion of the Norseman - Wiluna greenstone belt , comprising a complex succession of mafic rocks and ultramafic rocks , sulphidic carbonaceous shale , dacitic volcanic sediments and volcaniclastic sediments .
The area has a metamorphic grade averaging mid greenschist facies with local higher grade thermal hornfelsing proximal to the Binneringie dyke .
This sequence has been intruded by several younger Archaean felsic granitoids , dolerite dykes and lesser porphyry dykes .
Potential exists for new discoveries within the soil covered and underexplored volcaniclastic sequence .
SKM then conducted intensive programs of RC drilling at numerous gold prospecting pits , developing the area for open pit mining and haulage to the New Celebration mill in 2003 .
Review of previous data , in particular the soil sampling Planning and preparation for pedogenic calcrete auger sampling .
The Binneringie Dyke obscures Archaean detail within its strong magnetic halo and its contacts are difficult to pin down precisely .
The magnetic interpretation in conjunction with aerial photography shows the volcaniclastics to have a low magnetic relief , with ghosted fold structures and fracture sets that strike NE and N .
4 to 7 inclusive ) Locally there are thin linear discordant entities that display slightly stronger magnetic signatures and are interpreted as Archaean dolerite dykes .
These could be significant in the context of gold mineralisation where they intersect brittle host rocks at optimum angles .
Theoretically these surficial deposits would not comprise an optimum sample medium for soil geochemistry , especially over iron poor volcaniclastics and felsic volcanics that tend not to fix gold in the near - surface weathered profile .
Firstly the terrain may be divided into two principal domains separated by the Binneringie Dyke .
The northern domain comprises largely residual soils that effect more or less complete cover of the bedrock .
The preservation of what appears to be a residual profile is considered to be due to the barrier or watershed effect created by September 2006 to September 2007 the resistant Binneringie Dyke .
This erosion has incised the regolith over extensive areas , exposing bedrock south of the dyke and generating a slightly undulating relief comprising hillocks and rises of outcrop separated by colluvium - filled swales .
Nevertheless , the total lack of response over the sub outcropping areas in the south suggests an inherent lack of gold applies to that area .
On this line 5 consecutive samples are above the limit of detection , peaking at 9 ppb gold .
The auger lines covering the northernmost 800 m of the tenement peaked at 12 ppb gold .
In 2007 Rachael Finnigan formulated an amended proposal to the above comprising 480 auger samples which are to be analysed for gold and arsenic .
Geology of the Granite - Greenstone Terrane of the Lake Lefroy and Lake Cowan .
P24 / 4074 is located approximately 60 kilometres north northwest of Kalgoorlie in the Broad Arrow Mineral Field of the Eastern Goldfields Region of Western Australia .
P24 / 4074 is located in the south western portion of the Eastern Goldfields Superterrane which comprises the eastern third of the Archaean Yilgarn Craton .
Minara is to complete studies to determine the nickel sulphide prospectivity of the area and any future exploration requirements .
However , the nickel sulphide potential of the area is of renewed interest and previously suspended studies are to be resumed .
P24 / 4074 lies in an area of extensive gold mineralisation and is considered to be predominantly prospective for this metal .
This black shale is thought to be the source of the TEM conductor .
No significant base metals were intersected .
The footwall sequence displays strong to intense sericite alteration with the hanging wall displaying no visible alteration .
Drilling intersected mafic volcanics in the footwall with a felsic volcanic sequence with thin chert bands overlain by mafic volcanics with siltstone and shale to the east .
Geochemistry for the section however indicated that the logged felsic volcanics , siltstone and shale are of mafic provenance .
Anomalous base metal and pathfinder geochemistry in 13BARB020 appears to be associated with the chert bands .
Anomalous base metals and pathfinders are within the shale and siltstone above an unaltered mafic thought to be a sill .
Drilling intersected mafic volcanics in the footwall of a felsic volcanic sequence and black shale overlain by mafic volcanics .
The footwall sequence displays strong to intense sericite and hematite alteration with the hanging wall displaying no visible alteration .
The black shale has anomalous base metal and pathfinder geochemistry in 13BARB026 and anomalous .
The black shale is thought to be the source of the TEM conductor .
All the drilling on this section displays moderate to strong sericite alteration .
The source of the conductor is unexplained though if the pervasive iron alteration is weathered sulphides which is possible , may be enough to be the source of the conductor .
No significant base metals were intersected .
Drilling intersected mafic volcanics in the footwall with some chlorite alteration .
The lack of sericite alteration and any geochemical anomaly may indicate that the mafic intersected may be a single or series of intrusive rocks .
The tenements occur within the Gindalbie Terrane of the Norseman Wiluna Belt , located in the Eastern Goldfield Province of the southeast Yilgarn Craton .
The Gindalbie Terrane is consists of three recognisable greenstone sequences separated by low angle thrust faults .
The lower most sequence comprises a calc - alkaline complex overlain by fine - grained sedimentary rocks characterised by a bi - modal volcanic sequence including basalt , andesite and dacitic lavas interbedded with siltstones and tuffs and intruded by mafic intrusives .
The lower - most succession is structurally overlain by komatiite from the Bulong Volcanic Complex , with intercalated felsic tuff horizons that may represent Kalgoorlie Terrane sequences .
The shales are generally highly anomalous in pathfinders .
All samples were dispatched to Genalysis in Kalgoorlie for analysis with preparation by pulverising to 85 % passing 75 m .
Fine anhedral carbonate forms an integral part of the assemblage .
Fine anhedral magnetite is dispersed through the matrix .
Regionally deformed and possibly altered ( Fe chlorite sericite carbonate ) felsic tuff to intermediate tuff .
The fine grained matrix comprises fibrous to platy Fe chlorite to minor secondary biotite plus subordinate muscovite paralleling a penetrative schistosity .
Fine patchy carbonate is distributed through the matrix and has locally replaced the feldspathic component .
Fine grained magnetite aggregates or clusters have been attenuated parallel to the foliation and may represent a relict skeletal phase .
Enigmatic fine equant to rhomb - shaped limonite replicas are distributed through the matrix and coexist with carbonate supporting a possible sulphide precursor .
Regionally deformed and possibly altered ( Fe chlorite to secondary biotite muscovite carbonate ) micro quartz diorite .
Fine lathlike plagioclase ( pl ) and interstitial quartz ( Q ) occurs in a fibrous chlorite ( chl ) matrix .
Fine limonite ( lm ) replicas are dispersed through the matrix and are interpreted to have replaced original sulphides .
Portions of the matrix have preserved a fine to medium grained texture comprising lathlike plagioclase associated with quartz and locally developing feathery granophyric textures .
Skeletal leucoxene , after original magnetite , has also been preserved in the matrix that has been overprinted by a series of shears dominated by oriented schlieren of platy Mg chlorite and fine subhedral epidote .
The intermediate host has been brittle fractured and progressively replaced by platy Mg chlorite associated with anhedral carbonate and anhedral to subhedral epidote aggregates .
Brittle / ductile sheared and altered ( Mg chlorite epidote carbonate ) micro quartz granophyric diorite .
Relict skeletal leucoxene ( lx ) , after original magnetite , occurs in a sheared quartz diorite host preserving minor quartz ( Q ) .
Chlorite ( chl ) schlieren parallels the foliation and the matrix has been altered to carbonate ( carb ) , epidote ( ep ) and Mg chlorite .
Fine residual leucoxene has been preserved in the matrix and would appear to reflect a relict fabric .
Trace limonite aggregates also occur in the matrix .
A series of quartz veins cutting the matrix comprise anhedral quartz dusted by stress - induced fluid inclusion trains and locally developing deformation textures confirming ongoing tectonism of the siliceous host .
The matrix appears to have been pervasively altered to fibrous biotite and sericite and has been penetrated by clay in the weathering profile .
Fine grained magnetite , exhibiting fine elongate forms , exhibit a similar trachytic texture in the matrix .
Clay weathered and altered ( sericite - biotite ) porphyritic andesite to trachyandesite .
Sample 881919 Lathlike plagioclase ( pl ) phenocrysts occur in a fine grained matrix preserving fine lathlike to microlitic plagioclase exhibiting a trachytic texture .
The matrix appears to have been pervasively altered to fibrous biotite ( bt ) and sericite ( ser ) .
The plagioclase phenocrysts have been incipiently sericitised ( ser ) .
The clasts have been pervasively altered to secondary microcrystalline quartz and fibrous sericite .
The altered host has preserved equant to tabular plagioclase - albite in an altered matrix comprising fibrous or shredded sericite , secondary biotite and Fe / Mg chlorite .
Portions of the matrix are dominated by Fe / Mg chlorite and scaly secondary biotite .
Patchy limonite aggregates may have replaced original carbonate .
Amygdales in the matrix have been infilled by secondary quartz .
Fine , equant and elongate opaques magnetite are distributed through the altered matrix .
Trace goethite replicas after original sulphides .
The matrix is dominated by carbonate , locally exhibiting typical rhomb textured cleavage , and has been progressively replaced by limonite .
Secondary potash feldspar has been preserved possibly in original cavities that have been infilled by carbonate .
Additional alteration phases in the matrix include scaly sericite and microcrystalline quartz aggregates .
The altered matrix has been cut by a series of anastomosing quartz veins that have been cut by late carbonate veining .
A possible cavity within a volcanic top host comprises secondary potash feldspar infilled by carbonate that has been progressively replaced by limonite ( lm ) .
Cleavage traces have been preserved in the weathered carbonate phase .
